Writing from Experience
What’s your drive?
When writing any piece, it’s important to know why you’re writing it. Are you writing to tell a story or to shed light on a different perspective? Is there a point you’re trying to make? Just as with determining your audience, knowing why you are putting words to paper will make your piece more directed.
Who’s your audience?
Determining who you want to read your work determines how you write it. It determines what you say and how you say it. This is not to say that you should write with the sole intention of your target audience reading it, because sometimes they won’t. However, writing with an audience in mind will help keep your work more guided and focused.
Write your story, not someone else’s
A common problem that many come across in writing is generalization. It is important to keep in mind that when you are writing a piece, only you are writing that piece. It is easy to speak for a community of which you belong, however, you can only write your piece from your experiences, and not everyone within a given community shares the same experience. Write about what you know.
Write the truth
In writing, it’s easy to envision your reader sitting down and reading your piece, and this vision, however, can pull us out of writing our truths, and pull us into saying what we think we should say, as opposed to what happened. As aforementioned, keep your audience in mind when you write, but make sure you’re writing the truth as it happened. Did you actually feel that way? Did this experience really happen as written? Fact check your piece with yourself.
Use research to support what you know
When writing from our experiences, we sometimes lock ourselves into our own minds and we become our only source for information. However, using outside sourcing can be used to your advantage. Try to find data or perspectives that assist (or even challenge) your point of view. Interacting your experiences with outside information can bolster your piece and make it more interesting.
Don’t be overly formal
When writing your experience, it’s important to keep in mind that you’re not writing an essay. You’re not turning the article into a professor for a grade. Instead, you’re writing to share your experience and perspective. Be strong in your wording/diction, but keep it simple and relatable.
Little, everyday things are significant
What may be your “normal” may be something that is completely unknown to someone else. You don’t have to highlight every nuance of your experiences, but don’t ignore them, either. There are little gems hidden in day-to-day life. Observe and take note of the things that to you make up “just another day,” as they may hold important information for your work.
Don’t be afraid to change as you learn
Sometimes when we write, we have a strong idea of what we want our piece to look like. But then as we start writing, things change. When writing about a personal experience, you may discover something about yourself or your topic that maybe you hadn’t realized before, thus warranting a shift in the direction of your piece. Don’t run from the shift! Embrace it. Challenge your thoughts and beliefs; being authentic about your internal discord can strengthen your story. Your piece may now be traveling down a different path than originally planned, but that isn’t necessarily a bad thing. Be open to modifying your work.
How to structure your work
Structuring a story about your experiences varies. You have approx. 550-1000 words to say what you need to say. That being said, a good rule of thumb is to not wait until the end to make your point clear. You don’t necessarily have to explicitly state at the beginning what your piece is about and why people should care about it, but make sure that the direction your article will take is obvious at the beginning. How you title your work can largely play into this.