How to sift through an interview and determine what is the most important to include/figure out your angle:


Finishing several long interviews with a lot of good info can be overwhelming. It’s helpful to write out a quick outline of the key facts in a story and think through how you would explain the general premise of the story to another person.
From there, you can supplement the story with interesting details using your own discretion of what enhances your article


Determining your angle: In news, being accurate and objective is your number one goal, but your angle can set your story apart from other coverage
ex: Chancellor Andrew Martin announces the Wash. U. Pledge: a news story could focus on the history of Wash. U.’s initiatives for socioeconomic diversity and how this differs, the financials of the initiative and if it places any hardship on the university, if students think it will make washu more equitable, etc.
Look at the info you have — are you missing any voices that would balance the story more? is there any missing information/are there any questions you forgot to ask? 
Don’t be afraid to reach back out to sources!
Write with an inverted pyramid in mind:
Most important information should go at the beginning, supporting details should follow
Lede writing: a good lede establishes the who/what/where/when/why/how of an event — a great lede does this while also making it clear why the reader should care about this happening
Examples of ledes for different situations: anecdotal, event coverage, announcement, etc.
Most ledes are under 30 words — while we won’t enforce this, a super long lede is a good indicator that some information may need to be moved elsewhere
Use active voice whenever possible (think: WHO did WHAT?)
Be concise! if you can clearly express a point in fewer words, do so
show an example on screen
Quotes should enhance the story! 
adding personality, showing a person’s unique stance on a situation, anything that you couldn’t sum up in a couple of sentences
should not be quoted: stats, basic facts, basic description of an event that’s going to happen
keep it punchy!
great quotes come from a comfortable interviewing environment
Although there is a formula to newswriting, try not to be formulaic in your writing — don’t be afraid to try something new!
While the transition/quote model is a good general structure of how a standard reported story is structured, thinking of stories in this way can lead to formulaic and generic writing
Rather, ask yourself: What info do I think is most important for people to know? Which quotes/facts convey this information in the most informative and engaging way?